Welcome to AMOS Assembler. A Modular Open Source Assembler.
website: <http://www.tigr.org/software/AMOS>
contact: <amos@tigr.org>

   AMOS is open source software. Please see the `COPYING' file for
details. For documentation, please refer to the Documentation
section. For building and installation instructions please see the
Installation section.


Brief Summary
=============

   The AMOS consortium is committed to the development of open-source
whole genome assembly software. The project acronym (AMOS) represents
our primary goal -- to produce A Modular, Open-Source whole genome
assembler. Open-source so that everyone is welcome to contribute and
help build outstanding assembly tools, and modular in nature so that
new contributions can be easily inserted into an existing assembly
pipeline. This modular design will foster the development of new
assembly algorithms and allow the AMOS project to continually grow and
improve in hopes of eventually becoming a widely accepted and deployed
assembly infrastructure. In this sense, AMOS is both a design
philosophy and a software system.

   Because of its modular nature, AMOS cannot be described in one
paragraph since it is a composite of many different systems. See the
Pipeline section for quick descriptions of each pipeline, or the
Documentation section on where to find comprehensive documentation.


Installation
============

   Please follow the instructions in the `INSTALL' file for building
and installation. The `INSTALL' file is only a generic installation
document, so any AMOS specific installation notes are listed below.

   Once `make install' is issued, the installed scripts and Perl
modules must not be moved. Thus, convince yourself of the installation
directory beforehand and set the $PREFIX variable for `configure'
accordingly. AMOS makes use of a few custom installation directories
not mentioned in `INSTALL', they are as follows. $datadir, $libdir and
$includedir are set by `configure', see `configure --help' for more
information.

   - Documentation will be installed in $datadir/doc/amos-[version]
   - AMOS libraries and Perl modules will be installed in $libdir/AMOS
   - TIGR libraries and Perl modules will be installed in $libdir/TIGR
   - AMOS headers will be installed in $includedir/AMOS
   - TIGR headers will be installed in $includedir/TIGR

   Listed here are non-default FEATURES to the `configure' script
included with this distribution. These options are not documented in
the `INSTALL' file and are unique to the AMOS distribution.

   - AMOScmp        build AMOScmp dependencies [ARG=no]
   - AMOSmini       build AMOSmini dependencies [ARG=no]
   - all            build all dependencies [ARG=yes]

By default, the entire source base is built and installed as specified
by the `--enable-all' feature. However, by turning this feature off
and specifying a particular set of packages, build and install times
can be reduced. For instance, to only build the AMOSmini assembler
pipeline, we can type the following to ensure only the AMOSmini
dependencies are built and installed:

   `configure --disable-all --enable-AMOSmini'


Dependencies
============

   The AMOS package makes use of Perl (Practical Extraction and Report
Language). Perl is available on most systems and the latest versions
can be downloaded free of charge. AMOS requires Perl version 5.6.0 or
later. If `perl' is available from your system PATH, all is well, if
not you will need to instruct `configure' where it is located by
setting the environment variable PERL to the full path of `perl' (see
the Defining Variables section in the `INSTALL' file).

   AMOScmp makes use of the NUCmer whole genome alignment utility
which is part of the MUMmer package. If you wish to run AMOScmp, you
will need download and install MUMmer (available for free from
<http://www.tigr.org/software/mummer>). If `nucmer' is available from
your system PATH, all is well, if not you will need to instruct
`configure' where it is located by setting the environment variable
NUCMER to the full path of `nucmer' (see the Defining Variables
section in the `INSTALL' file).


Documentation
=============

   Currently, AMOS is not released with a comprehensive manual. This
is coming soon (see `NEWS'). In the meantime, check out the `doc'
directory included in this distribution or point your browser to the
AMOS website.


Pipeline
========

   Listed here are the current AMOS pipelines available. Source files
for the pipelines are in `src/Pipeline' and will be installed in
$bindir as executable scripts. Please see individual documentation for
each pipeline in the `doc' directory. Individual pipelines can also be
built and installed separately, see the `Install' section for more
details.

   - AMOScmp -
   Provides a general overlap-layout-consensus pipeline for assembly,
   but with a twist. The overlap phase of the process is replaced with
   an alignment to a reference, i.e. all sequencing reads are aligned
   to a finished reference sequence and their alignments are used to
   determine their layout position.

   - AMOSmini -
   Provides a lightweight overlap-layout-consensus pipeline for
   assembly. This pipeline is only meant to handle inputs with read
   counts in the 100's and is therefore named "mini". This pipeline is
   perfect for assembling smaller data sets because it avoids the
   large overhead imposed by whole genome (WGA) assemblers.


August 2004

